v0.8.0 Blog (#88)
kuzudb/kuzu-blog: src/content/post/2025-02-03-kuzu-v-0.8.0.md

You can now search for word occurrences across collections of strings in Kùzu tables, as you may be familiar with from other systems that offer this functionality. The index can be built on one or multiple columns in a Kùzu node table, and each tuple in the table can be interpreted as a document.

To utilize the full-text search index, you have to install and load the `FTS` extension first.
```sql
INSTALL fts;
LOAD EXTENSION fts;
```

The `FTS` extension introduces two functions `CREATE_FTS_INDEX` and `QUERY_FTS_INDEX` for creating and querying the index, respectively.

We use an example to demonstrate how the extension can be used to build an index on a `Books` table and search from it.
```cypher
// Schema of the Books table
CREATE NODE TABLE Book (ID SERIAL, abstract STRING, author STRING, title STRING, PRIMARY KEY (ID));
... ...
// Create a full-text search index on top of string columns.
CALL CREATE_FTS_INDEX('Books', 'BooksFTSIndex', ['abstract', 'author', 'title']);
// Query keywords from the index.
CALL QUERY_FTS_INDEX('Books', 'BooksFTSIndex', 'graph databases') 
RETURN _node.title, score
ORDER BY score DESC; ;
```

> Additionally, we support the `conjunctive` option for querying the index, which searches for tuples containing all the keywords in the query.

Reviewer: Yes, tuples isn't something the general audience normally uses or understands. Documents sounds more appropriate to me.

---
slug: "kuzu-0.8.0-release"
title: "Kùzu 0.8.0 Release"
description: "Release announcement for Kùzu 0.8.0"
pubDate: "Feb 04 2025"
heroImage: "/img/default.png"
categories: ["release"]
authors: ["team"]
tags: ["cypher"]
---

> It's 2025, and we're kicking off the year with the exciting release of Kùzu 0.8.0. This release brings a new feature that distinguishes Kùzu from any other graph database out there -- Kùzu-WASM for in-browser graph analytics -- run your graph database while keeping all data and compute within your browser session! Our extension ecosystem also has an exciting new addition: an `fts` extension for full-text search, so that you can run keyword-based search queries using BM25 in Kùzu.

Reviewer 2: We're kicking off 2025 with the release of Kùzu-WASM for in-browser graph analytics and full-text search!

With Kùzu-WASM, you can run your graph database entirely within your browser session and keep all data locally. This is unique to Kùzu, no other graph database that we know of has WASM support. It is another testament to our commitment to making using Kùzu as seamless as possible for our developers. WASM support enables client-side analytics and offline graph processing. This can be especially critical for handling sensitive data.

Our extension ecosystem is expanding with a new full-text-search (fts) extension.  With BM25-powered keyword search, you can run text-based queries directly in Kùzu.

Reviewer: Looks good. BM25 is explained and linked to below, and is a well-known FTS algorithm.

In addition to these new features, we've streamlined the developer workflow during relationship table creation by unifying `CREATE REL TABLE GROUP` into a single, flexible `CREATE REL TABLE` syntax. 

> Along with these features, we've also improved our execution of aggregation queries significantly. In the following sections, we'll dive into more details.

Reviewer 2: Finally, we've also improved our execution of aggregation queries significantly.  In the following sections, we'll dive into more details.

> Along with these features, we've also improved our execution of aggregation queries significantly. In the following sections, we'll dive into more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we've also improved our execution of aggregation queries significantly. In the following sections, we'll dive into more details.
```

---
slug: "kuzu-0.8.0-release"
title: "Kùzu 0.8.0 Release"
description: "Release announcement for Kùzu 0.8.0"
pubDate: "Feb 04 2025"
heroImage: "/img/default.png"
categories: ["release"]
authors: ["team"]
tags: ["cypher"]
---

We’re kicking off 2025 with an exciting release - Kuzu 0.8.0!

> This release brings a new feature that distinguishes Kùzu from any other graph database out there — Kùzu-WASM for in-browser graph analytics — run your graph database while keeping all data and compute within your browser session! WASM support enables client-side analytics and in-browser graph processing. This can be especially critical for handling sensitive data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release brings a new feature that distinguishes Kùzu from any other graph database out there — Kùzu-WASM for in-browser graph analytics.  You can run your graph database while keeping all data and compute within your browser session! This can be especially critical for handling sensitive data.
```

> We’ve also added full-text-search (`fts`) to our extension ecosystem. With BM25-powered keyword search, you can now run text-based queries directly in Kùzu.

Reviewer 2: why do we have `

## New Features

### Kùzu-WASM
Starting from version 0.8.0, we are happy to release a [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/) (WASM) version of Kùzu that runs within web browsers on a variety of devices.

Why is this exciting? With Kùzu-WASM, you can:
- Perform interactive data analytics directly in the browser.
- Achieve low latency with fast in-browser graph analytics.
- Ensure data privacy if you need data to stay entirely in the browser.

This makes it very useful for use cases like building interactive in-browser graph analytics and visualization
in sensitive data environments, where users can analyze their data privately without transferring it to a server. 
To use Kùzu-WASM, you have to install the `kuzu-wasm` package first:

```bash
npm i kuzu-wasm
```

Then, you can follow our [API documentation](https://docs.kuzudb.com/client-apis/wasm/) to integrate it into your projects. To see Kùzu-WASM in action,
we have developed a version of Kùzu Explorer, which is Kùzu's browser-based graph visualization and CLI. You can check out this
demo [here](https://demo-wasm.kuzudb.com/).

> ### Full-Text Search (fts) Extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Full-Text Search (`fts`) Extension
```

We're introducing an `fts` extension to enable full-text search capabilities using the [BM25](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Okapi_BM25) scoring algorithm in Kùzu.
The FTS index can be built on one or multiple columns in a Kùzu node tables. Similar to other
GDBMSs, we interpret each node as a "document".
Our implementation of FTS is native, i.e., we do not use any separate libraries, similar to DuckDB's
FTS feature, and is based on the paper [Old Dogs Are Great at New Tricks](https://www.duckdb.org/pdf/SIGIR2014-column-stores-ir-prototyping.pdf) (read the paper
for a simple and elegant approach to support FTS natively in columnar database systems!).

In our implementation, we leveraged several graph-native capabilities of Kùzu: 
words from source documents are stored as a Kùzu node table, while the occurrences 
of words in "documents" are stored as a Kùzu relationship table, which means
our default CSR join index on rel tables serves as an inverted index from words to documents,
and allows Kùzu to answer queries very quickly (expect millisecond latencies).

> To utilize the full-text search index, you have to install and load the `FTS` extension first.

Reviewer 2: 'fts'

Reviewer: Can you make the suggestion?

```sql
INSTALL fts;
LOAD EXTENSION fts;
```

> The `FTS` extension introduces three functions `CREATE_FTS_INDEX`, `QUERY_FTS_INDEX` and `DROP_FTS_INDEX` for creating, querying and dropping the index, respectively.

Reviewer 2: fts

> The `FTS` extension introduces three functions `CREATE_FTS_INDEX`, `QUERY_FTS_INDEX` and `DROP_FTS_INDEX` for creating, querying and dropping the index, respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `fts` extension introduces three functions `CREATE_FTS_INDEX`, `QUERY_FTS_INDEX` and `DROP_FTS_INDEX` for creating, querying and dropping the index, respectively.
```

## New Features

### Kùzu-WASM
Starting from version 0.8.0, we are happy to release a [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org/) (WASM) version of Kùzu that runs within web browsers on a variety of devices.

Why is this exciting? With Kùzu-WASM, you can:
- Perform interactive data analytics directly in the browser.
- Achieve low latency with fast in-browser graph analytics.
- Ensure data privacy if you need data to stay entirely in the browser.

This makes it very useful for use cases like building interactive in-browser graph analytics and visualization
in sensitive data environments, where users can analyze their data privately without transferring it to a server. 
To use Kùzu-WASM, you have to install the `kuzu-wasm` package first:

```bash
npm i kuzu-wasm
```

Then, you can follow our [API documentation](https://docs.kuzudb.com/client-apis/wasm/) to integrate it into your projects. To see Kùzu-WASM in action,
we have developed a version of Kùzu Explorer, which is Kùzu's browser-based graph visualization and CLI. You can check out this

> demo here [here](https://demo-wasm.kuzudb.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
demo [here](https://demo-wasm.kuzudb.com/).
```

CREATE (b:Book {abstract: 'An exploration of quantum mechanics.', author: 'Alice Johnson', title: 'The Quantum World'});
CREATE (b:Book {abstract: 'An introduction to machine learning techniques.', author: 'Emma Brown', title: 'Learning Machines'});
CREATE (b:Book {abstract: 'A fantasy tale of dragons and magic.', author: 'Charlotte Harris', title: 'The Dragon\'s Call'});

// Build a fts-index named `book_index` on the book table
CALL CREATE_FTS_INDEX(
    'Book',   // Table name
    'book_index',   // Index name
    ['abstract', 'author', 'title'],   // Properties to build FTS index on
    stemmer := 'porter'   // Stemmer to use (optional: if left out, the English snowball stemmer is used)
)

// Query the `book_index` table
CALL QUERY_FTS_INDEX('Book', 'book_index', 'quantum machine')
RETURN node.title, score
ORDER BY score DESC;
```

The following result is returned:
```
┌───────────────────┬──────────┐
│ node.title        │ score    │
│ STRING            │ DOUBLE   │
├───────────────────┼──────────┤
│ The Quantum World │ 0.857996 │
│ Learning Machines │ 0.827832 │
└───────────────────┴──────────┘
```

> Additionally, we support the `conjunctive` option for querying the index, which searches for tuples containing all the keywords in the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we support the `conjunctive` option for querying the index, which searches for documents containing _all_ the keywords in the query.
```

---
slug: "kuzu-0.8.0-release"
title: "Kùzu 0.8.0 Release"
description: "Release announcement for Kùzu 0.8.0"
pubDate: "Feb 03 2025"
heroImage: "/img/default.png"
categories: ["release"]
authors: ["team"]
tags: ["cypher"]
---

TODO: some opening.

-- 

## Kùzu WASM

## Full-Text search

## User-facing features

### More DataFrame scan options

> **Skip errorneous rows**
> Previously we have supported skip errorneous rows when bulk inserting into table through CSV and Parquet files. We extend this support to DataFrame in this release.
> 
> **Support skip limit rows**

Reviewer 3: I don't have edit access to this repo to putting my first draft here
```suggestion
**Skip errorneous rows**
Previously we have supported skip errorneous rows when bulk inserting into tables from files (e.g. CSV and Parquet). We extend this support to Python DataFrames (PyArrow, Polars, Pandas) in this release.

**Support skip limit rows**
We now have the ability to use the `SKIP` and `LIMIT` parameters when scanning from Pandas-backed dataframes. The `SKIP` parameter allows the first `n` rows of the dataframe to be skipped, while the `LIMIT` parameter ensures that at most `n` rows of the dataframe are scanned. Before we only supported using those parameters when scanning from PyArrow-backed dataframes, we can use these parameters for all Python Dataframes.
```

Reviewer: @royi-luo I don't see the docs for this in the dev docs. It might be buried deeply inside the query clauses section of the Cypher manual, but please point me to it in case I'm missing something obvious..
